short_title	title	series	Idea	genre	author_voice	protagonist	antagonist	good_guys	bad_guys	locations	themes	revelations	character_arcs	mcguffins	plot_twists	special_instructions	num_chapters	num_scenes_per_chapter	num_tokens_total	select	model	book_plan
M Go Bachelorette	Title: Hoops and Hearts: A Wolverine's Love Story	Sports Romance By Sports Fans	A Michigan football fan lotteries off her season tickets in a quest for romance.	Sports romance	Woman who knows sports	plucky Wolverine	antagonist: Rival football fans	good_guys: Michigan Wolverines	Ohio U., Sparty	Ann Arbor	victory	revelations: The protagonist discovers that true love may be found in the most unexpected places, even in the midst of a heated sports rivalry.	character_arcs: The protagonist learns to prioritize her own happiness and personal relationships over her obsession with football, ultimately finding fulfillment and love outside of the sports world.	mcguffins: The protagonist's season tickets to Michigan basketball games	plot_twists: The protagonist's lottery winner turns out to be a die-hard Ohio State fan, leading to a series of unexpected encounters and challenges as they navigate their budding romance amidst the fierce rivalry between their teams.	special_instructions: Incorporate elements of football games and fan culture to enhance the sports romance theme throughout the book.	0.0	0.0	0.0	True	gpt-3.5-turbo	"Chapter 1: The protagonist, a die-hard Michigan Wolverines fan, decides to lottery off her season tickets in the hopes of finding love.

Chapter 2: The lottery winner turns out to be a passionate Ohio State fan, creating tension and rivalry right from the start.

Chapter 3: Despite their opposing loyalties, the protagonist and the lottery winner begin to form a connection over their shared love of sports.

Chapter 4: The protagonist struggles to balance her feelings for the Ohio State fan with her loyalty to her beloved Wolverines.

Chapter 5: As they attend Michigan basketball games together, the protagonist and the lottery winner navigate the challenges of their relationship in the midst of the fierce rivalry.

Chapter 6: The protagonist starts to question her priorities as she realizes that true love may be found in unexpected places.

Chapter 7: The rivalry between the Michigan Wolverines and Ohio State intensifies, putting a strain on the protagonist's budding romance.

Chapter 8: The protagonist learns to let go of her obsession with football and focus on her personal happiness and relationships.

Chapter 9: A surprising revelation about the lottery winner's past brings a new perspective to their relationship.

Chapter 10: In the end, the protagonist finds fulfillment and love outside of the sports world, showing that victory can come in many forms."
"""The Catcher in the Rye"""	"Title: ""The Catcher in the Rye"""	"series: ""Modern Classics"""	"Idea: The idea of ""The Catcher in the Rye"" revolves around the protagonist's struggle with identity, alienation, and the loss of innocence in a society that he perceives as phony."	genre: Coming-of-age fiction	"author_voice: The author's voice in ""The Catcher in the Rye"" is authentic, raw, and reflective of the protagonist's inner turmoil and disillusionment with society."	protagonist: Holden Caulfield	"antagonist: Society and the societal norms that Holden Caulfield perceives as phony act as the antagonistic force in ""The Catcher in the Rye""."	"good_guys: Phoebe Caulfield, Holden's younger sister, serves as a source of comfort and stability for him throughout the novel, making her one of the ""good guys"" in ""The Catcher in the Rye""."	"bad_guys: The ""bad guys"" in ""The Catcher in the Rye"" can be seen as the adults and authority figures who Holden Caulfield feels are hypocritical, fake, and oppressive."	locations: New York City, Pennsylvania, Holden's boarding school, various bars and hotels	"themes: themes: The themes explored in ""The Catcher in the Rye"" include the loss of innocence, the search for authenticity, the struggle with identity, alienation, and the conflict between individuality and societal expectations."	"revelations: Holden Caulfield's journey in ""The Catcher in the Rye"" leads to revelations about the complexities of adulthood, the importance of human connection, and the need for personal growth and acceptance."	"character_arcs: character_arcs: The character arcs in ""The Catcher in the Rye"" focus on Holden Caulfield's emotional and psychological development as he navigates the challenges of adolescence, grapples with his inner conflicts, and ultimately seeks a sense of belonging and understanding in a world that he finds alienating."	"mcguffins: The missing field ""mcguffins"" in ""The Catcher in the Rye"" could be the red hunting hat that Holden Caulfield wears throughout the novel. The hat symbolizes his desire to stand out and be different from the rest of society, while also serving as a source of comfort and protection for him."	"plot_twists: The missing field ""plot_twists"" in ""The Catcher in the Rye"" could be the unexpected revelation about Holden Caulfield's mental health and the realization that his narrative may not be entirely reliable, adding a layer of complexity to the story and challenging the reader's perception of the protagonist."	"special_instructions: The missing field ""special_instructions"" for ""The Catcher in the Rye"" is to read the book with an open mind and to consider the deeper themes and symbols that contribute to Holden Caulfield's journey of self-discovery and growth. Pay attention to the protagonist's inner thoughts and feelings, as well as the societal critique that the novel presents."	0	0	0	True	gpt-3.5-turbo	
